# Predicting Rushing Yards in the NFL

The goal of American Football is to gain yards for the offense team whereas the defense prevents them from scoring. At a certain point of time, there are 11 players for each of the two teams playing on the field. It is difficult to quantify the actions of the play without doing a proper analysis of the game. The offensive team must have seven players on the line of scrimmage at the start of play whereas the defensive team may position all of its 11 players on the line of scrimmage. There are several types of formations like singleback, shotgun, pistol and I-Formation. Along with the ball carrier, teammates, coach, positions, speed  of players, and opposing defence play a big role in determining the number of yards gained in a game. The teams follow a strategy and this strategy decides the result of the play. 

This dataset got our attention as most of our team members are NFL fanatics, and also because NFL has so much variability in the form of draft picks, injuries, division standings, and change in opposite teams playbook, etc., which pushes the coach and players to keep coming up with new strategies. Due to the challenging nature of this problem and our interest in the sport we want to explore this dataset.

In this project, we aim to find the relations between attributes and patterns that are responsible for a successful gain of yards. We analyzed the different attributes of a play ranging from the player’s information to the type of stadium. It aims to provide a statistical model to determine the number of yards gained in each team play. The objective is to try and predict the outcome of a play using different data mining techniques-- classification by binning the yards which makes the problem a 10-class classification, regression by simply using the yard values, and predicting Cumulative Distribution Function (CDF) of yards which indicates the probability that the team gains <= that many yards on the play.
